rents are rising and that goes for most
major cities these are unstoppable and
it's all because of unnatural events
government intervention at its finest a
recipe for disaster and its true
consequences you came here for the truth
today we're going to look at rental
prices and what's keeping them so
high let's look at this from the fed's
own website you can see that the rent of
the primary residence has been rising
year after year
I'm happy to show you from the beginning
of the financial crisis but you can see
this as a
trend what this doesn't show you is that
not only is it rental prices we are
seeing Energy prices rise we seeing food
prices rise and when you add that all
together you start to get a different
picture than what the government
portrays then when we take this
information realize we're looking at
National levels here but you don't live
in the nation as as a whole you live in
a city those major cities where most
people are living have higher rental
prices in terms of their
increases you're seeing that as a result
of government
intervention I'll get into that more in
a moment but I just wanted to show you
that what you can do as an individual if
you want to really look at the
statistics properly is to not base them
on a national level such as this
while it does show that it is increasing
which is true you can see the more
dramatic rise instead of spreading it
out over a nation you take it for what
it is and take it at the city level not
even at the state or Province level you
want the city level and then you can
compare that to other cities so let's do
that right now this article here that I
found I read through it's showing you
first of all the median rent in major US
cities and then it Compares that which
is interesting to the amount of coffee
shops in these
areas to see if that somehow correlates
and it's a little fun way to do things
here but essentially what we have is the
median rental price in the previous six
months you're looking at New York on the
top of the list then San FR Los Angeles
and so on and let's see how that
correlates to coffee shops again New
York and San Francisco on the top of the
list Los Angeles is there as well and
others so it's an interesting little
thing but I'll get into this more and
why this is important we're looking at
the median rent in Manhattan
neighborhoods so when you break it down
by the actual neighborhoods within
Manhattan you start to get a different
picture then when you look at it on a
state level or even on a city level the
more you break it down the better it
gets and you'll see that the more
expensive areas in fact have more coffee
shops it's an interesting little tidbit
of information but I wanted to show you
the fact that these prices in these
particular areas can be dramatically
higher than they are in different areas
of Manhattan we're talking about a small
area geographically that Manhattan is
but the price can be very very different
so that's something to think about as
well now the major point that I wanted
to make for
today Fanny May and Freddy Mack are two
friends from the financial crisis from
the housing boom and bust are financing
this rental boom the gsc's government
sponsored entities made 53 3% of all
apartment loans in 2016 and they're
suggesting that this is down from their
combined 68 market share in 2012 so look
at this so their conservator the uh
Federal Housing Finance Agency fhf fhfa
recently eased the gsc's lending caps so
that they can crank out even more loans
and that's what's happening within the
financial industry they may have decided
to tighten up on regulations a little
bit after the financial crisis to
pretend that they were doing something
good but ultimately they reversed course
and they are allowing this to happen
again reserves are at very low rates and
banks are simply lending out more and
more money they're doing so and they're
being promoted to do so as
well Fanny May and Freddy Mack are
particularly dominant in garden
department and student housing around
60% the two Remain the largest in mid
high-rise lenders but hold only 35% of
the
market and I just wanted to just note
this one thing here government sponsored
entities which by the way were the
problem back in the housing boom and
bust guarantee commercial mortgages on
apartment buildings and package them
into commercial IAL mortgage back
Securities so taxpayers are on the hook
banks are on the hook too and that's
what this is all
about you and I we pay for this you may
not feel it directly but we
do when you can take the worst of the
worst
debt and you can package it up into a
so-called
investment people will buy it investors
will buy it and they will be able to
make a profit from it you know even
after Apple owns some of this
crap but don't worry because they have a
lot of your
money they're people are just investing
in these companies and they buy this
crap and then you wonder
why we're bailing them out it's not to
necessarily bail out the individuals
that are involved here it's to support
the corporations which are bigger than
the
governments that's what it comes down to
then we look at this rental apartments
and buildings 50 plus units to be
delivered in 2017 New York City again on
the top of the list but other uh cities
here obviously being very important from
Texas and other places La again on the
top
there and I'm suggesting to everyone
that perhaps we need more places more
places for people to live that is a fact
however what if the government wasn't
there to loan out money to people what
if the government wasn't there to be the
lender of Last Resort to be that safety
net to do everything for everybody wipe
their behind of every person well then
you would have a very different scenario
I know I'm talking about what ifs but
that is usually what happens when the
cracks
appear we get these what if scenarios to
actually come
up and then you take it one step further
to the Black Swan type event which
nobody is
anticipating well then we have a very
different picture and then just quickly
just wanted to mention this for all of
my friends here in Canada check out a
website called rental housing
index.css to show you the basics what
you can do to see all the details the
fine details of what's happening within
the prices and it gives you all the way
down you can drill down as far as you
want and it tells you a lot of detail
that is rental housing
index.css here just two articles wanted
to get to very
quickly your favorite Mayor DeBlasio now
wants to
tax wealthy New Yorkers to pay for
everything from emergency rail repairs
to lowcost bus and train rides for the
poor that's right the wealthy have to
pay for the poor that's what it's
suggesting and they want to increase
these taxation you know increase
taxation on people and have that pay for
something
else this here this socialist type
environment doesn't work ever when you
talk about the wealthy you're generally
talking about people who are making you
know depending on how they term that
$100,000 or more a year maybe $250,000
more a year usually 250 per household
and these people are definitely more
wealthy than the average person that's a
fact however these are the people that
generally tend to employ other people
they tend to buy more expensive Vehicles
they tend to go to restaurants more
often they tend to spend more money into
the economy as a whole but if you start
taxing them at a higher rate they're
either going to take their money they're
going to pull offshore they're going to
different tax Havens they're going to um
pull their money out of the system into
a different way finding different
loopholes and it is a big mistake don't
tax them at a high rate don't tax
wealthy people don't tax the middle
class don't tax anybody taxes are the
worst way to bring in money well just on
their income which I believe is immoral
I believe it is
theft it's complete theft to do so it's
extortion pay us the money or we send
the creditors after you it's putting a
gun to your head taxation is theft
that's a fact I'm actually making a
t-shirt of that right
now and
when you see what they always try to
propose to people we'll just increase
tax increase tax and the middle class
will say well I'm not part of the
wealthy so that's okay you can do so
I'll vote for you the lower class will
do the same that's just the way it
is and then just wanted to note this if
you ever check out it's a really good
website visualcapitalist.com
a lot of people are visual Learners and
I I believe that this is something even
if you're not it's just something to
look at that's a great really a really
great resource and that is visual
capitalist is us or China the world's
economic superpower and then it says
depending on who you ask so these
countries here on the right hand side in
the red are suggesting that these are
the world's leading economic power and
you're looking at Russia Germany Sweden
even Canada the
UK and Australia and others are
suggesting that China is in fact the
world's leading economic power whereas
if you ask Korea Japan Israel turkey and
so on they say that the US is and it
gets into the different
um issues geopolitical issues down below
I'm not going to get into the whole
thing I think it would be interesting
for you I wanted to bring it to you
that's at visualcapitalist.com if you
want to see the the direct link the as
always under sources if you look in the
description of this video under sources
there's a link if you click that link it
brings you to the sources I've used in
that particular video so check that out
and last but not least if you found the
video informative please give me a
thumbs up and you can flip through my
books at Amazon they have a look inside
feature you can actually flip through
the pages the first book is about the
four asset classes and how to profit
from it whereas my new book is about
reducing your monthly expenses becoming
self-sufficient solar panels and this
type of thing that's at Amazon links are
in the description below take care